>> Maximiliano Firtman: So,
it's time to see what's new after ES6, but
in this case, we won't be covering
features by ECMAScript version,
because sometimes it
doesn't make any sense.
You won't remember if it's ES2019 or 2023.
It doesn't really matter a lot,
mostly if you are going to be using
modern browsers or a transpiler, okay?
So we will just cover everything
after ES6 grouped by topic, okay?
And I will mention here and there, okay,
this is from 19, this is from 20, but
it's not really what's important.
So let's start talking about
language enhancements.
Here, we will talk about
some small changes,
okay, it will be really,
really straightforward.
The GlobalThis, optional catch binding,
function to a string,
new operators, actually we have
a couple of new operators.
Some of them will be
very niche purposes but
some others will become
your new best friends,
class declaration some
changes in class declarations
that are actually pretty good and
also weird.
So at the same time, so you will see.
Changes on the object class, changes or
additions to working with the strings,
and numbers, okay?
So, let's jump in.
Now, we'll go back to our interface here,
and
I'm going to load first from
Language Enhancement, GlobalThis.
So, remember I mentioned before that
based on where we are running JavaScript,
the global object is different.
It can be self on workers or
service workers.
It can be window on browsers or
global on Node.js.
If you are creating global variables or
functions,
those elements are actually
tied to a global object.
The problem when you're writing
cross-platform JavaScript is
that it depends if you're running on the
server or if you're running client-side,
that global object is just different.
Well, it can be window,
it can be global or it can be self, okay?
So now, from ES2020,
we have something known as GlobalThis.
So we can replace everything
with GlobalThis and
on every platform is always
the global context, is just that.
Okay, so it's a pointer created
in ECMA Script directly that
points always to the this global object,
not matter the platform,
is just that,
nothing really more complicated than that.
And that makes our cross platform
JavaScript code better and
cleaner because then we don't need to
start asking if this is in the browser,
then use window,
if this is in Node.js, use global.
Okay, it's just that,
GlobalThis everywhere and it will work.
Trailing commas,
also something really straightforward.
From ES2017,
actually 2017 was a version that did
add a lot of things, and
this is one of those things.
We can add trialing commas at arrays,
add objects,
be careful because this is
not done JSON compatible.
So it works in JavaScript but
it's not validated against a JSON schema.
So if you're trying to do JSON parse, or
if you're trying to read that with
other language isn't gonna work, okay?
But it works in JavaScript, and
it also works for a function arguments.
So, why this is useful it
makes things simpler at least,
when for
example you are using multilines and
then you start changing the order,
doing things like that.
So if you have a trailing comma,
you don't need to always remember that
the last element doesn't need the comma.
And then, I mean, when you're doing
this without the trailing comma,
you start creating problems in your syntax
that you need to add the comma here,
remove the comma here, and so on.
It's just that, nothing really important.
But it's safe to add
trailing commas now here.
Optional Catch Binding. This is interesting because this was
making a lot of problems with linters.
A linter is a tool that you use that
will give you hints or warning messages,
for example,
when you are not using a variable.
I mean,
we know that every time we do try-catch,
we should do something with the error,
we should be doing something.
Logging the error, retrying,
okay, but if you're a developer,
you know that there are some
situations and sometimes we are lazy.
And yeah, in the catch,
we just do nothing, okay?
But it was mandatory to
create a variable for
the error, it was mandatory, okay?
Well from 2019 from ECMAScript 2019,
this is optional.
So we can just remove the error
object declaration and it work.
Of course, we won't get the details of
the error, okay, but it's optional now.
We don't need to create a variable
that then a linter will complain
that we are not using.
It's like, hey, you have a variable
that you're not using the variable,
something may be wrong here.
Well, now optional catch binding will
let you override that problem, okay?
Small changes that makes the code cleaner,
okay?
Function to a string, actually,
I don't think it's really useful, okay?
But now when you have a function, you
can convert the function to a string and
you say, why do I want to do that?
Well, when you convert
the function to a string,
what you get is the actual
text of the function,
that you may want to eval or
run in a different context.
So it has to do with reflection APIs.
So you can get the text,
the actual source code of the function and
try to execute that in a different runtime
or if you're doing multi threading,
things like that,
actually it's not really useful, but
that wasn't available before and
it's available from 2019.
>> Speaker 2: So obviously differs
in the way it's structured, but
with this offer other benefits compared
to just like JSON stringify for
serialization to JSON.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: But
this is only for functions.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, sorry.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
it's not converting data,
this is just giving you
the source code of a function,
having the function as a variable,
having the function as a reference.
>> Speaker 2: I didn't check
the prototype chain, sorry.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That's fine,
that's fine, but it's function only, okay?
So that's why I say it's not something
that you would probably use on
a daily basis for sure.